README.md, before:

<div align="center">

<!-- Animated typing header -->
<a href="https://git.io/typing-svg"><img src="https://readme-typing-svg.demolab.com?font=Fira+Code&weight=600&size=28&pause=1000&color=6366F1&center=true&vCenter=true&random=false&width=600&lines=Hi+%F0%9F%91%8B+I'm+Mehtab+Uddin+Shadan;Senior+Software+Developer;6%2B+Years+Building+Enterprise+Systems;.NET+Core+%7C+Next.js+%7C+Angular" alt="Typing SVG" /></a>

<br/>

<img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Senior_Software_Developer-6366F1?style=for-the-badge" alt="Role"/>
<img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/New_Delhi,_India-374151?style=for-the-badge&logo=googlemaps&logoColor=white" alt="Location"/>
<img src="https://komarev.com/ghpvc/?username=digitalCrawler&style=for-the-badge&color=6366f1" alt="Profile Views"/>

</div>

<br/>

## About Me

```text
> Senior Software Developer with 6+ years of experience building scalable,
  high-performance enterprise systems using .NET Core, Next.js, Angular,
  and Microservices.
```

- **Currently:** Leading development of **Orbis** — a Ship Planned Maintenance System using Next.js, .NET Core & PostgreSQL
- **Expertise:** Microservices architecture, REST API design, database optimization, and performance tuning
- **Leadership:** Code reviews, mentoring junior developers, and driving architectural decisions
- **AI-powered:** Actively using GitHub Copilot & Claude Code to ship features faster

<br/>

## Tech Stack

<div align="center">

### Languages
<p>
  <img src="https://skillicons.dev/icons?i=cs,c,js,ts,html,css" alt="Languages" />
</p>

### Frontend
<p>
  <img src="https://skillicons.dev/icons?i=angular,react,nextjs,bootstrap,jquery" alt="Frontend" />
</p>

### Backend
<p>
  <img src="https://skillicons.dev/icons?i=dotnet,nodejs" alt="Backend Core" />
  &nbsp;
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/ASP.NET_Core-512BD4?style=for-the-badge&logo=dotnet&logoColor=white" alt="ASP.NET Core" height="30"/>
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Web_API-512BD4?style=for-the-badge&logo=dotnet&logoColor=white" alt="Web API" height="30"/>
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/SignalR-512BD4?style=for-the-badge&logo=dotnet&logoColor=white" alt="SignalR" height="30"/>
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Microservices-FF6F00?style=for-the-badge&logo=kubernetes&logoColor=white" alt="Microservices" height="30"/>
</p>

### Databases & Caching
<p>
  <img src="https://skillicons.dev/icons?i=postgres,mysql,redis" alt="Databases" />
  &nbsp;
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/SQL_Server-CC2927?style=for-the-badge&logo=microsoftsqlserver&logoColor=white" alt="SQL Server" height="30"/>
</p>

### ORMs & Frameworks
<p>
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Entity_Framework_Core-512BD4?style=for-the-badge&logo=dotnet&logoColor=white" alt="EF Core" height="30"/>
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Dapper-1A1A2E?style=for-the-badge&logoColor=white" alt="Dapper" height="30"/>
  <img src="https://skillicons.dev/icons?i=prisma" alt="Prisma" height="30"/>
</p>

### Practices & Tools
<p>
  <img src="https://skillicons.dev/icons?i=git,github,figma" alt="Tools" />
  &nbsp;
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/CI/CD-2088FF?style=for-the-badge&logo=githubactions&logoColor=white" alt="CI/CD" height="30"/>
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Agile/Scrum-0052CC?style=for-the-badge&logo=jira&logoColor=white" alt="Agile" height="30"/>
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/REST_APIs-009688?style=for-the-badge&logo=fastapi&logoColor=white" alt="REST APIs" height="30"/>
</p>

### AI & Productivity
<p>
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/GitHub_Copilot-000000?style=for-the-badge&logo=githubcopilot&logoColor=white" alt="Copilot" height="30"/>
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Claude_Code-D97706?style=for-the-badge&logo=anthropic&logoColor=white" alt="Claude Code" height="30"/>
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Make_(Integromat)-6D00CC?style=for-the-badge&logo=make&logoColor=white" alt="Make" height="30"/>
</p>

</div>

<br/>

## What I've Built

<table>
  <tr>
    <td width="50%">
      <h3 align="center">Orbis — Ship PMS</h3>
      <p align="center">
        <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Next.js-000000?style=flat-square&logo=nextdotjs&logoColor=white" />
        <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/.NET_Core-512BD4?style=flat-square&logo=dotnet&logoColor=white" />
        <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/PostgreSQL-4169E1?style=flat-square&logo=postgresql&logoColor=white" />
        <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/TypeScript-3178C6?style=flat-square&logo=typescript&logoColor=white" />
      </p>
      <p align="center"><em>Leading development of a maritime Planned Maintenance System with scalable modules for jobs, work orders, equipment & inventory</em></p>
    </td>
    <td width="50%">
      <h3 align="center">Databeat — Digital Signage</h3>
      <p align="center">
        <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/.NET_Core-512BD4?style=flat-square&logo=dotnet&logoColor=white" />
        <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Angular-DD0031?style=flat-square&logo=angular&logoColor=white" />
        <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Microservices-FF6F00?style=flat-square&logo=kubernetes&logoColor=white" />
      </p>
      <p align="center"><em>Monolith-to-microservices migration. Built 15+ APIs and reusable components, cutting dev time significantly</em></p>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td width="50%">
      <h3 align="center">KeyNomad CRM</h3>
      <p align="center">
        <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Angular_14-DD0031?style=flat-square&logo=angular&logoColor=white" />
        <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/.NET_Core-512BD4?style=flat-square&logo=dotnet&logoColor=white" />
        <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/MySQL-4479A1?style=flat-square&logo=mysql&logoColor=white" />
        <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Redis-DC382D?style=flat-square&logo=redis&logoColor=white" />
      </p>
      <p align="center"><em>40% system performance improvement through optimized queries, Redis caching & better UX</em></p>
    </td>
    <td width="50%">
      <h3 align="center">Mazepoint — BI Platform</h3>
      <p align="center">
        <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Angular-DD0031?style=flat-square&logo=angular&logoColor=white" />
        <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Highcharts-058DC7?style=flat-square&logoColor=white" />
        <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/.NET_Core-512BD4?style=flat-square&logo=dotnet&logoColor=white" />
        <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/SQL_Server-CC2927?style=flat-square&logo=microsoftsqlserver&logoColor=white" />
      </p>
      <p align="center"><em>BI dashboards serving 500+ users with 50% faster report generation through SQL optimization</em></p>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>

<br/>

## Key Achievements

<div align="center">

🏗️ **Monolith → Microservices** · Migrated legacy .NET systems to microservices, improving scalability & deployment cycles

⚡ **40% Faster Load Times** · Optimized with Redis caching strategies, SQL tuning & API performance improvements

✅ **Quality at Scale** · Delivered production-grade modules with minimal defects through code reviews & CI/CD

🎓 **Engineering Mentorship** · Mentored junior developers in Angular, Next.js, .NET Core & TypeScript

</div>

<br/>

## GitHub Stats

<div align="center">
  <img src="https://github-readme-stats.vercel.app/api?username=digitalCrawler&show_icons=true&theme=tokyonight&hide_border=true&count_private=true&bg_color=0D1117" alt="GitHub Stats" height="170" />
  <img src="https://github-readme-stats.vercel.app/api/top-langs/?username=digitalCrawler&layout=compact&theme=tokyonight&hide_border=true&bg_color=0D1117" alt="Top Languages" height="170" />
</div>

<div align="center">
  <img src="https://github-readme-streak-stats.herokuapp.com/?user=digitalCrawler&theme=tokyonight&hide_border=true&background=0D1117" alt="GitHub Streak" />
</div>

<br/>

<!-- Activity graph -->
<div align="center">
  <img src="https://github-readme-activity-graph.vercel.app/graph?username=digitalCrawler&theme=tokyo-night&hide_border=true&bg_color=0D1117&color=6366F1&line=6366F1&point=FFFFFF" alt="Activity Graph" width="100%"/>
</div>

<br/>

## Let's Connect

<div align="center">

[![LinkedIn](https://img.shields.io/badge/LinkedIn-0A66C2?style=for-the-badge&logo=linkedin&logoColor=white)](https://www.linkedin.com/in/mehtab-uddin-shadan/)
[![Email](https://img.shields.io/badge/Gmail-D14836?style=for-the-badge&logo=gmail&logoColor=white)](mailto:mehtab.shadan@gmail.com)
[![Portfolio](https://img.shields.io/badge/Portfolio-000000?style=for-the-badge&logo=vercel&logoColor=white)](https://mehtab.dev)
[![Phone](https://img.shields.io/badge/+91_9990300465-25D366?style=for-the-badge&logo=whatsapp&logoColor=white)](tel:+919990300465)

</div>

<br/>

<div align="center">
  <img src="https://capsule-render.vercel.app/api?type=waving&color=6366F1&height=100&section=footer" width="100%"/>
</div>

Commit message:

Revise README to reflect current role and achievements
Updated current role description and highlighted impact and leadership experience.

README.md, after:

<div align="center">

<!-- Animated typing header -->
<a href="https://git.io/typing-svg"><img src="https://readme-typing-svg.demolab.com?font=Fira+Code&weight=600&size=28&pause=1000&color=6366F1&center=true&vCenter=true&random=false&width=600&lines=Hi+%F0%9F%91%8B+I'm+Mehtab+Uddin+Shadan;Senior+Software+Developer;6%2B+Years+Building+Enterprise+Systems;.NET+Core+%7C+Next.js+%7C+Angular" alt="Typing SVG" /></a>

<br/>

<img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Senior_Software_Developer-6366F1?style=for-the-badge" alt="Role"/>
<img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/New_Delhi,_India-374151?style=for-the-badge&logo=googlemaps&logoColor=white" alt="Location"/>
<img src="https://komarev.com/ghpvc/?username=digitalCrawler&style=for-the-badge&color=6366f1" alt="Profile Views"/>

</div>

<br/>

## About Me

```text
> Senior Software Developer with 6+ years of experience building scalable,
  high-performance enterprise systems using .NET Core, Next.js, Angular,
  and Microservices.
```

- **Currently:** Leading end-to-end development of enterprise-grade products — from architecture to deployment
- **Expertise:** Microservices architecture, REST API design, database optimization, and performance tuning
- **Impact:** Shipped systems serving 500+ users, cut load times by 40%, and migrated monoliths to microservices
- **Leadership:** Driving code reviews, mentoring engineers, and owning technical decisions across cross-functional teams
- **AI-powered:** Leveraging GitHub Copilot & Claude Code to accelerate delivery and ship features in days, not weeks

<br/>

## Tech Stack

<div align="center">

### Languages
<p>
  <img src="https://skillicons.dev/icons?i=cs,c,js,ts,html,css" alt="Languages" />
</p>

### Frontend
<p>
  <img src="https://skillicons.dev/icons?i=angular,react,nextjs,bootstrap,jquery" alt="Frontend" />
</p>

### Backend
<p>
  <img src="https://skillicons.dev/icons?i=dotnet,nodejs" alt="Backend Core" />
  &nbsp;
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/ASP.NET_Core-512BD4?style=for-the-badge&logo=dotnet&logoColor=white" alt="ASP.NET Core" height="30"/>
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Web_API-512BD4?style=for-the-badge&logo=dotnet&logoColor=white" alt="Web API" height="30"/>
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/SignalR-512BD4?style=for-the-badge&logo=dotnet&logoColor=white" alt="SignalR" height="30"/>
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Microservices-FF6F00?style=for-the-badge&logo=kubernetes&logoColor=white" alt="Microservices" height="30"/>
</p>

### Databases & Caching
<p>
  <img src="https://skillicons.dev/icons?i=postgres,mysql,redis" alt="Databases" />
  &nbsp;
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/SQL_Server-CC2927?style=for-the-badge&logo=microsoftsqlserver&logoColor=white" alt="SQL Server" height="30"/>
</p>

### ORMs & Frameworks
<p>
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Entity_Framework_Core-512BD4?style=for-the-badge&logo=dotnet&logoColor=white" alt="EF Core" height="30"/>
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Dapper-1A1A2E?style=for-the-badge&logoColor=white" alt="Dapper" height="30"/>
  <img src="https://skillicons.dev/icons?i=prisma" alt="Prisma" height="30"/>
</p>

### Practices & Tools
<p>
  <img src="https://skillicons.dev/icons?i=git,github,figma" alt="Tools" />
  &nbsp;
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/CI/CD-2088FF?style=for-the-badge&logo=githubactions&logoColor=white" alt="CI/CD" height="30"/>
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Agile/Scrum-0052CC?style=for-the-badge&logo=jira&logoColor=white" alt="Agile" height="30"/>
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/REST_APIs-009688?style=for-the-badge&logo=fastapi&logoColor=white" alt="REST APIs" height="30"/>
</p>

### AI & Productivity
<p>
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/GitHub_Copilot-000000?style=for-the-badge&logo=githubcopilot&logoColor=white" alt="Copilot" height="30"/>
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Claude_Code-D97706?style=for-the-badge&logo=anthropic&logoColor=white" alt="Claude Code" height="30"/>
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Make_(Integromat)-6D00CC?style=for-the-badge&logo=make&logoColor=white" alt="Make" height="30"/>
</p>

</div>

<br/>

## What I've Built

<table>
  <tr>
    <td width="50%">
      <h3 align="center">Orbis — Ship PMS</h3>
      <p align="center">
        <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Next.js-000000?style=flat-square&logo=nextdotjs&logoColor=white" />
        <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/.NET_Core-512BD4?style=flat-square&logo=dotnet&logoColor=white" />
        <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/PostgreSQL-4169E1?style=flat-square&logo=postgresql&logoColor=white" />
        <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/TypeScript-3178C6?style=flat-square&logo=typescript&logoColor=white" />
      </p>
      <p align="center"><em>Leading development of a maritime Planned Maintenance System with scalable modules for jobs, work orders, equipment & inventory</em></p>
    </td>
    <td width="50%">
      <h3 align="center">Databeat — Digital Signage</h3>
      <p align="center">
        <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/.NET_Core-512BD4?style=flat-square&logo=dotnet&logoColor=white" />
        <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Angular-DD0031?style=flat-square&logo=angular&logoColor=white" />
        <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Microservices-FF6F00?style=flat-square&logo=kubernetes&logoColor=white" />
      </p>
      <p align="center"><em>Monolith-to-microservices migration. Built 15+ APIs and reusable components, cutting dev time significantly</em></p>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td width="50%">
      <h3 align="center">KeyNomad CRM</h3>
      <p align="center">
        <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Angular_14-DD0031?style=flat-square&logo=angular&logoColor=white" />
        <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/.NET_Core-512BD4?style=flat-square&logo=dotnet&logoColor=white" />
        <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/MySQL-4479A1?style=flat-square&logo=mysql&logoColor=white" />
        <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Redis-DC382D?style=flat-square&logo=redis&logoColor=white" />
      </p>
      <p align="center"><em>40% system performance improvement through optimized queries, Redis caching & better UX</em></p>
    </td>
    <td width="50%">
      <h3 align="center">Mazepoint — BI Platform</h3>
      <p align="center">
        <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Angular-DD0031?style=flat-square&logo=angular&logoColor=white" />
        <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Highcharts-058DC7?style=flat-square&logoColor=white" />
        <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/.NET_Core-512BD4?style=flat-square&logo=dotnet&logoColor=white" />
        <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/SQL_Server-CC2927?style=flat-square&logo=microsoftsqlserver&logoColor=white" />
      </p>
      <p align="center"><em>BI dashboards serving 500+ users with 50% faster report generation through SQL optimization</em></p>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>

<br/>

## Key Achievements

<div align="center">

🏗️ **Monolith → Microservices** · Migrated legacy .NET systems to microservices, improving scalability & deployment cycles

⚡ **40% Faster Load Times** · Optimized with Redis caching strategies, SQL tuning & API performance improvements

✅ **Quality at Scale** · Delivered production-grade modules with minimal defects through code reviews & CI/CD

🎓 **Engineering Mentorship** · Mentored junior developers in Angular, Next.js, .NET Core & TypeScript

</div>

<br/>

## GitHub Stats

<div align="center">
  <img src="https://github-readme-stats.vercel.app/api?username=digitalCrawler&show_icons=true&theme=tokyonight&hide_border=true&count_private=true&bg_color=0D1117" alt="GitHub Stats" height="170" />
  <img src="https://github-readme-stats.vercel.app/api/top-langs/?username=digitalCrawler&layout=compact&theme=tokyonight&hide_border=true&bg_color=0D1117" alt="Top Languages" height="170" />
</div>

<div align="center">
  <img src="https://github-readme-streak-stats.herokuapp.com/?user=digitalCrawler&theme=tokyonight&hide_border=true&background=0D1117" alt="GitHub Streak" />
</div>

<br/>

<!-- Activity graph -->
<div align="center">
  <img src="https://github-readme-activity-graph.vercel.app/graph?username=digitalCrawler&theme=tokyo-night&hide_border=true&bg_color=0D1117&color=6366F1&line=6366F1&point=FFFFFF" alt="Activity Graph" width="100%"/>
</div>

<br/>

## Let's Connect

<div align="center">

[![LinkedIn](https://img.shields.io/badge/LinkedIn-0A66C2?style=for-the-badge&logo=linkedin&logoColor=white)](https://www.linkedin.com/in/mehtab-uddin-shadan/)
[![Email](https://img.shields.io/badge/Gmail-D14836?style=for-the-badge&logo=gmail&logoColor=white)](mailto:mehtab.shadan@gmail.com)
[![Portfolio](https://img.shields.io/badge/Portfolio-000000?style=for-the-badge&logo=vercel&logoColor=white)](https://mehtab.dev)
[![Phone](https://img.shields.io/badge/+91_9990300465-25D366?style=for-the-badge&logo=whatsapp&logoColor=white)](tel:+919990300465)

</div>

<br/>

<div align="center">
  <img src="https://capsule-render.vercel.app/api?type=waving&color=6366F1&height=100&section=footer" width="100%"/>
</div>
